{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\info
{\author Matilda Lerner}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15580\viewh12000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Background and Related Work:
\f1\b0  What other work has been done before? Do similar systems or research exist? How does your project fit into a greater context, perhaps building on what has come before? Be sure to reference other work properly, and include those references at the end of the paper.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 	Rogue-likes have been around since the release of the original 
\f2\i Rogue
\f1\i0  in 1980. The genre has been refined over decades, and interpreted in various ways to match contemporary game standards. More recently, rogue-likes have evolved to encompass completely different genres, such as twin-stick shooters, \outl0\strokewidth0 platformers, \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 strategy games, and even card games.\
	Traditional rogue-likes that have significantly impacted my decisions in development include 
\f2\i Tales of Maj\'92Eyal
\f1\i0 , 
\f2\i Caves of Qud
\f1\i0 , 
\f2\i Dwarf Fortress
\f1\i0 , 
\f2\i Nethack
\f1\i0 , and 
\f2\i Cogmind
\f1\i0 . More versatile contemporary rogue-likes include
\f2\i  Into the Breach
\f1\i0 , 
\f2\i Hades
\f1\i0 , 
\f2\i Spelunky
\f1\i0 , and 
\f2\i Slay the Spire
\f1\i0 . \
	There are plenty more, and I continue to see rogue-likes developed all the time. It is an incredibly versatile genre which continues to be worked upon, with plenty of ideas being discussed that have yet to have been tackled. While my game, 
\f2\i Leaflings
\f1\i0 , will certainly not fit anywhere alongside these games, I myself am filled with ideas and passion for continuing to explore this wonderful and unique genre.}