{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\info
{\author Matilda Lerner}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15580\viewh12000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Introduction:
\f1\b0  Explain the context and motivation for your project. What domain are you working in? What is the subject of your project? Why is this a problem worth solving? Include a very brief description of your approach. With some luck, you can probably steal most of this from your project proposal.
\fs32 \
\
	Video games have always been a large part of my life, which was why I wanted to code a game from scratch for my senior project. My decision for the genre revolved around versatility, which was why I went with building a traditional rogue-like. \
	My desire to develop a rogue-like dates back years, which made the project especially engaging; the result only includes a fraction of the myriad ideas I wanted to develop. My hope in developing this game was that I would learn the fundamentals of what makes my favorite games so engaging.\
	A rogue-like is defined by its \'93permadeath\'94 mechanic: when the player character dies, the player must start from scratch, carrying with them the skills and knowledge necessary to make it further in the next \'93run\'94 (a run being an attempt at playing the game from start to finish). More contemporary rogue-likes include progression between runs as well as versatile and engaging gameplay mechanics, whereas 
\f2\i traditional 
\f1\i0 rogue-like are significantly more rigid: nothing gets carried over between runs, and the gameplay is strictly turn based and heavily influenced by pen and paper roleplaying games.\
	Rather than investing too much time in developing every mechanic from scratch, I relied on the Python module named PyGame which supplied me with the tools necessary to operate my game. This allowed me to focus on the mechanics of my game rather than minutia involved in processing graphics from scratch.\
	}