{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexSans-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}}
{\info
{\author Matilda Lerner}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15580\viewh16580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Abstract:
\f1\b0  A short (max 150 words) summary of the paper. It\'92s usually easier to write this last, once the structure of the paper has taken shape.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Introduction:
\f1\b0  Explain the context and motivation for your project. What domain are you working in? What is the subject of your project? Why is this a problem worth solving? Include a very brief description of your approach. With some luck, you can probably steal most of this from your project proposal.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Every aspect of a game stems from its mechanics, a notion which fascinates me to no end. For this reason, I endeavored to design a complex video game from scratch as my senior thesis, studying and applying various algorithms in order to create the foundation for deep and engaging gameplay.\
	My decision to apply this learning to a \'93traditional rogue-like\'94 stems from my longtime fascination with the genre. Multiple of my favorite games can be classified as nothing other than a traditional rogue-like while boasting distinct mechanics which set them apart from any other game, or creative endeavor for that matter. My hope was to understand at least the foundation of how these games operate, applying them to my own attempt at a traditional rogue-like. \
	What defines a rogue-like is the forcing of a player back to the start of the game whenever they lose, a mechanic called permadeath, a shorthand for permanent death. The earliest rogue-likes strived to capture the essence of tabletop role-playing games by simulating every detail of every game object to create a world deep with possibilities, using permadeath as a means of forming a bond between a player and their character. Contemporary rogue-likes, while maintaining the permadeath qualifier, have foregone complexity in favor of quicker and more reactive mechanics. In other words, contemporary rogue-likes are more akin to their arcade ancestors, while contemporary developers of traditional rogue-likes continue to experiment with deep mechanics (or, in the case of some developers, introducing these deep mechanics to the current generation).\
	Finding this medium where developers are actively experimenting with the scope of what video games mechanics are capable of is what draws me to traditional rogue likes, and why I wanted to learn how to develop the fundamentals of one. There are of course tools and libraries available to facilitate the development of a rogue like, but I chose to forego them in the hope of learning how these core mechanics function. This was the foundation into which I entered the development of my game, which I have chosen to call 
\f2\i Leaflings
\f1\i0 .\
	\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Background and Related Work:
\f1\b0  What other work has been done before? Do similar systems or research exist? How does your project fit into a greater context, perhaps building on what has come before? Be sure to reference other work properly, and include those references at the end of the paper.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	The concept of a \'93rogue-like\'94 was defined in the 80s, as many developers were releasing derivatives of the original 
\f2\i Rogue
\f1\i0 , released in 1980, due to its appealing flexible nature and open-ended design. The genre still sees refinement and interesting adaptations with many rogue-likes being released by indie developers every year, some of which garner massive acclaim and success. \
	Contemporary rogue-likes tend to give players an incentive to continue playing between losses by allowing special unlocks, regardless of a round\'92s victory. If a player makes significant progress but dies before reaching the game\'92s end, their progress in that round must be lost (as dictated by rogue-like tradition), but they should still be rewarded for getting far. This reward both incentivizes the player to try again, and it also allows the developers to make the later parts of their game more difficult, with the knowledge that the player can come back with steadily better unlocks. (Risk of Rain)\
	Contemporary developers of traditional rogue-likes tend to adhere to the archaic fundamental mechanics of ancient rogue-likes. Some games find a hybrid space, such as 
\f2\i Tales of Maj\'92Eyal
\f1\i0  which conforms to traditional gameplay while allowing progress between games. The most noteworthy contemporary rogue-like developers, however, tend to stick to the fundamentals which made original rogue-likes so fun. (ToME, Cogmind)\
	My project adheres more to the latter methodology. While I am fond of many contemporary rogue-likes, the mechanics required would have been too complex for me to work at a low level, forcing me to use a game engine, which would have foregone the learning experience. As such, much of my design methodology was strictly bound to foundational rogue-like mechanics. My goal with this project was not necessarily to create a game that could be considered a worthy contribution to its genre, but instead to understand the fundamentals of how to develop a rogue-like so that I may someday apply my learning to a more noteworthy game. \
\
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Implementation / Methods:
\f1\b0  If you did an implementation project, describe its architecture and how it works. For a research project, explain your research method. Feel free to document failed attempts as well as the final path taken. This is likely to be the largest section in the writeup of an implementation project. Just the facts please: this section should not make claims about how well your system works or how it compares to other efforts. That material goes in the next two sections.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	In choosing a low-level engine that would allow me to write my own mechanics from scratch, I decided to work with PyGame. Python is a relatively simple language, and I didn\'92t want to worry about memory management or graphics as much as actual gameplay.\
	My initial approach was to create a series of objects which, when put together, would run a full game. I had the game handler, running a game loop to detect inputs and process turns, then designed a board which was made up of tiles. My prototype saw me manually inserting tiles with loops to specify the exact structure of a level.\
	I designed a preliminary entity class, and added a player to walk around this new board. These entities contain references to the board they exist on, so that they can confirm movements without bumping into walls. However, this causes dependency issues, as the board must store entities which depend on said board. Rather than address these dependency issues, I made the entity methods abstract enough to run the board\'92s methods without necessarily acknowledging the fact that it is a board, a Python feature which was not used in good practice.\
	It was necessary at this point for me to generate multiple rooms in order to implement and test more complex mechanics. I moved the code I used to create the initial room into a function, then used that function to easily build a three-room test map. \
	This was when I introduced binary space partitioning (BSP) to my project. In order to generate a proper map with an even layout, rogue-like developers often use BSP to divide the screen into a series of partitions, each of which is then used to generate a room. From there, adjacent partitions get merged by having their rooms connected. This is repeated until one partition remains containing the finalized dungeon. (https://www.roguebasin.com/index.php/Basic_BSP_Dungeon_generation)\
	The struggle in this implementation came from connecting the rooms. Partitioning and room generation was straightforward, but the process of connecting partitions often led to misshapen tunnels which didn\'92t connect all the way or overlapped with other rooms and tunnels. While this was inherent to my tunnel implementation, I could not pinpoint how to resolve any of these issues, and instead opted to repeatedly generate dungeons, validating their full connectivity in order to determine whether they could be used or not. This led to an extended load screen, but guaranteed that the outcome of these algorithms were consistently navigable.\
	With a proper dungeon generator, I moved on to my implementation of the A* pathfinding algorithm. I wanted my entities to feel autonomous, and be able to attack the player on their own.\
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Evaluation / Results & Analysis:
\f1\b0  How well does your system work, or what did you figure out? In an implementation project, you might report on either a short user study explaining the system in use, or give the results of tests demonstrating the effectiveness of your implementation. For research projects, present and analyze data that supports your arguments. It wouldn\'92t be surprising for this to be the largest section in a research project writeup.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	The result of my work hardly encapsulates the scope of my vision, \
	Reaching each goal felt like an enormous success in itself. Implementing fascinating mathematical algorithms in my game environment was difficult, but seeing things work is incredibly satisfying. \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Discussion:
\f1\b0  The previous two sections described your work in detail, and the related work section talked about what others have done. This section should put your results in context \'97 how does your contribution support, refute, or extend previous work? What is the significance of your project? Opinions are fine here, as long as you make a coherent argument to back them up (e.g. \'93We feel that this system offers a superior experience for the user since it crashes less often than Microsoft Blurb.\'94). Your discussion will be stronger if you give an honest comparison of your project to existing work (e.g. \'93It is true that Microsoft Blurb offers better security than our system, but security was not our primary emphasis for this proof-of-concept implementation, and could be added at later date.\'94).\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Future Work:
\f1\b0  What are the next steps, either for you or for people who might build on your work?\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	It\'92s no secret that the game industry is a tense one. As such, I don\'92t anticipate being able to dive right in with this game. Someday however, I do hope to be able to make substantial contributions to a game I feel confident about. As such, my next steps likely won\'92t involve refining 
\f2\i Leaflings
\f1\i0 , but rather moving on to a new project in order to expand my repertoire of work. I hope to someday attempt to make a better rogue-like using the knowledge I now have, but I also hope to develop games via a game engine, such as Godot or Unreal. Hopefully, given enough time, I will be able to participate in game jams and other various game competitions so that people can play my game and give me feedback. With enough practice and experience, I will hopefully someday be able to find work developing games.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Conclusion:
\f1\b0  Include some concluding remarks. Summarize and reiterate what you see as the key points from your writeup. Basically you\'92re using the old \'93tell them what you\'92re going to tell them, tell them, and then tell them what you told them\'94 structure in the hopes that your point really got through.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Acknowledgments:
\f1\b0  This section is used to acknowledge the people or organizations that provided significant help or inspiration. It might not be relevant to your writeup. In the real world you\'92d thank the funding agencies that supported your work, the reviewers who gave feedback on drafts of the paper, and any other contributors. If you did an implementation project, you might consider acknowledging the authors of any packages or libraries you used, etc.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
References:
\f1\b0  A properly formatted list of references. This will be substantial in a research report, but less so for an implementation project. The references can be construed fairly broadly in computer science\'97in addition to journal articles, books, and conference proceedings, papers often reference web pages, tutorials, etc. Note that this is different from a bibliography, which lists things that you\'92ve read but that are not necessarily referenced in your paper. All of the entries in this section should be referenced at least once in the body of your paper.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Appendices:
\f1\b0  You might consider adding an appendix (or several) if you have tables of data, long listings of source code, or other supporting information that\'92s too long to insert into the body of the paper, but that\'92s relevant to your project. These will not be counted against the 8-10 page limit.\
}