### Progress this past week
- Wrote a function to <u>build rooms</u> cleanly and easily! I need to work on cloning tiles in order to not get references mixed up and have extra unnecessary clutter, but this works as a preliminary way of generating dungeons!
- <u>Entities</u> got reworked with the notion that there will be a lot of different entity types. Added the "player" entity type which can be controlled! Also made a "move" method to have entities move one tile at a time while accounting for impassable spaces.
- Since a lot of things need graphics, I made my own <u>Graphic object</u> to handle anything tile-graphic-related, and threw in all the methods I was repeating everywhere.
- Started working on <u>items</u>! Like entities, there will be a couple of types of items, so I started working on the framework of one of those item types: the consumable. I want to start with a health potion which the player can pick up and consume in order to restore their health stat.
- Developer tools, like the <u>console and tile_sampler</u>, were also added to the game. The console, while functional, needs a lot of reworking: alongside extended functionality, I would like for it to work inside the game environment, rather than having to jump to the terminal to be used. 

### Goals for next week
1. Room class: While I have one large collection of tiles used to define the layout of the dungeon, I would like to put specific information pertaining to a room in an individual Room class. This class would contain all of the tiles that the room consists of, as well as the room's dimensions and location. This would alleviate a lot of the work needed in generating a full map, like making sure one rooms don't overlap, or easily connecting two rooms.
2. Pathfinding (A* algorithm): I intend to thoroughly research pathfinding algorithms for a variety of uses: 
	1. The first major use would be in connecting rooms, using the pathfinding algorithm to create tunnels directly between two rooms. 
	2. The second would be for entities to wander around. If an enemy wants to fight the player, they should know how to get to the player - even if they're in the next room over. Ideally by next week, I'll be able to place an entity in a generated dungeon and have it navigate its way from one point to another, and even follow the player as they move about.
3. Procedural dungeon generation: This is the big goal I want to accomplish ideally by next week. I'll have the layout for a dungeon level be fully randomized, ensuring there's a start and an exit, and that every room is accessible. This will take quite a bit of research, since level generation has a variety of requirements in order to be thoroughly random while staying fair to the player. But I have been and plan to continue developing the tools I'll need to expedite the process. First, I shall create for you a ground to tread; only then will I taint it with my myriad of festering creatures. Am I God? Only on my laptop I am!

Furthermore, I plan to continue working on the Item Class so as to make information about items more visible, and to actually add effects to the items.

### Goals for the future
1. UI: While I've got a "game board" up and running, I need to start designing a UI to wrap around the board which displays information about the player, enemies, and items. There will also be a text box to take player input and output the gamelog. The aforementioned console would operate out of this text box! All of these things, including the game board, will exist within this UI class which will handle all of the user interface stuff.
2. Props: It hasn't been at the top of my mind, but I will eventually need to implement things like doors and chests. I want there to be objects in this world which allow for further levels of interaction with the environment. For example, I want chests to disappear if the player takes too long to clear a room of enemies, therefore putting pressure on the player to perform with haste. Doors should hide what's in the next room, giving the player the choice to risk an enemy encounter for potential rewards or finding a different way around.